# Instructor Notes - Structured Programming 101

This document contains notes for the Structured Programming 101 instructor.

## Requirements

The course instructor should be familiar with computer programming.
They should have a solid understanding of the course concepts and
should be able to readily explain the concepts at a deeper level.

This is an introductory course, and the instructor need not be a
software professional nor have a degree in computer science. However,
the instructor should have a demonstrated ability to solve problems
using software. A background in hobbyist programming should be
sufficient.

The instructor should be able to demonstrate their ability to
effectively communicate the course concepts to students.  No formal
teacher training is required, but good communication skills are
important.

## Materials

There are no consumable materials for this course. Students should be
encouraged to bring their own laptops.

## Teaching suggestions

Before the course begins, try to make sure most students have
Processing installed. Displaying the download link at the front of the
class will help. Assist students who are having trouble installing.

When the class starts, you may want to run a working program or two.
This will get students' attention and demonstrate what's possible. At
least one of the demonstration programs should require no techniques
beyond what the students will be exposed to during the class.

If possible, switch periodically between your slides and a working
code example. It may be helpful to have prepared your code at various
checkpoints so that you can load the code during your
presentation. Run the code often so that the students can see what
should be happening and you can explain what is happening. It can be
helpful to occasionally make "mistakes" so that you can engage
students in helping you solve the problem.

At the end of the class, run the full working demo that they have
produced. Suggest some simple extensions that they could do using the
techniques you have taught them, and/or by learning slightly more on
their own.  Be sure to share your own working code so that they can
compare and troubleshoot on their own.

Mention that this class is a lead-in to Arduino 101 and
Programming 201.  Maybe suggest things like Code Academy or Coursera
if they are deeply interested and want to begin a course of
self-study.
